README.md, before:

# Assignment 1

## Task 1: Perform Basic Mathematical Operations
Run the `Assignment-1/task_1.py` to perform a basic calculation.
The program will accept two numbers from user during runtime and produce:
- Addition
- Subtraction
- Multiplication
- Division

## Task 2: Create a Personalized Greeting
Run the `Assignment-2/task_2.py` for personalized greeting
The program accepts first name and last name during runtime and produces a welcome message with the provided name.

### Mac or Linux
```
python3 Assignment-1/task_1.py

python3 Assignment-1/task_2.py
```

### Windows
```
python Assignment-1/task_1.py

python Assignment-1/task_2.py
``` 


# Assignment 2

## Task 1: Check if a number is Even or Odd
Run the `Assignment-2/task_1.py` to check if the number is even or odd.
The program accepts number during run time.

## Task 2: Sum of Integers from 1 to 50 using loop
Run the `Assignment-2/task_2.py` to get the sum of digits from 1 to 50.

### Mac or Linux
```
python3 Assignment-2/task_1.py

python3 Assignment-2/task_2.py
```

### Windows
```
python Assignment-2/task_1.py

python Assignment-2/task_2.py
```


# Assignment 3

## Task 1: calculate factorial using function
Run the `Assignment-3/task_1.py` to display factorial of a number. by default 5 is hard coded, you can change the number in the code to make changes.

## Task 2:
Run the `Assignment-3/task_2.py` to display multiple mathematical operations:
- Square root
- Logarithm
- Sine

### Mac or Linux
```
python3 Assignment-3/task_1.py

python3 Assignment-3/task_2.py
```

### Windows
```
python Assignment-3/task_1.py

python Assignment-3/task_2.py
```

# Assignment 4

**Note:** Navigate inside the `Assignment-4` directory
## Task 1: Read a File and Handle Errors
This reads the `sample.txt` present inside the files folder and then prints the result line by line.
Additionally you will see Line 1: text, for each line the number changes. The program throws error if sample.txt not found inside the files directory.

## Task 2: Write and Append Data to a File
This accepts user input and triggers a function `write_to_file()` that creates a new file `output.txt`. then it prompts for more input once provided, it calls `append_to_file()` that appends/adds data to existing `output.txt`. Then `read_from_file()` is triggers that reads and displays the data.

### Mac or Linux
```
python3 task_1.py

python3 task_2.py
```

### Windows
```
python task_1.py

python task_2.py
```

# Assignment 5

**Note:** Navigate inside the `Assignment-5` directory

## Task 1: Create a Dictionary of Student Marks
Using file handling knowldge from the previous assignment, wrote a program that stores student name and marks on the file and fetches as per the requirement. User can add more data, fetch student's marks with their name.

## Task 2: Demonstrate List Slicing 
- Creates a list of numbers from 1 to 10.
- Extracts the first five elements from the list.
- Reverses these extracted elements.
- Prints both the extracted list and the reversed list

### Mac or Linux
```
python3 task_1.py

python3 task_2.py
```

### Windows
```
python task_1.py

python task_2.py
```

Commit message:

removed redundant code and added more detail fo Assignment 5

README.md, after:

# Assignment 1

## Task 1: Perform Basic Mathematical Operations
Run the `Assignment-1/task_1.py` to perform a basic calculation.
The program will accept two numbers from user during runtime and produce:
- Addition
- Subtraction
- Multiplication
- Division

## Task 2: Create a Personalized Greeting
Run the `Assignment-2/task_2.py` for personalized greeting
The program accepts first name and last name during runtime and produces a welcome message with the provided name.

### Mac or Linux
```
python3 Assignment-1/task_1.py

python3 Assignment-1/task_2.py
```

### Windows
```
python Assignment-1/task_1.py

python Assignment-1/task_2.py
``` 


# Assignment 2

## Task 1: Check if a number is Even or Odd
Run the `Assignment-2/task_1.py` to check if the number is even or odd.
The program accepts number during run time.

## Task 2: Sum of Integers from 1 to 50 using loop
Run the `Assignment-2/task_2.py` to get the sum of digits from 1 to 50.

### Mac or Linux
```
python3 Assignment-2/task_1.py

python3 Assignment-2/task_2.py
```

### Windows
```
python Assignment-2/task_1.py

python Assignment-2/task_2.py
```


# Assignment 3

## Task 1: calculate factorial using function
Run the `Assignment-3/task_1.py` to display factorial of a number. by default 5 is hard coded, you can change the number in the code to make changes.

## Task 2:
Run the `Assignment-3/task_2.py` to display multiple mathematical operations:
- Square root
- Logarithm
- Sine

### Mac or Linux
```
python3 Assignment-3/task_1.py

python3 Assignment-3/task_2.py
```

### Windows
```
python Assignment-3/task_1.py

python Assignment-3/task_2.py
```

# Assignment 4

**Note:** Navigate inside the `Assignment-4` directory
## Task 1: Read a File and Handle Errors
This reads the `sample.txt` present inside the files folder and then prints the result line by line.
Additionally you will see Line 1: text, for each line the number changes. The program throws error if sample.txt not found inside the files directory.

## Task 2: Write and Append Data to a File
This accepts user input and triggers a function `write_to_file()` that creates a new file `output.txt`. then it prompts for more input once provided, it calls `append_to_file()` that appends/adds data to existing `output.txt`. Then `read_from_file()` is triggers that reads and displays the data.

### Mac or Linux
```
python3 task_1.py

python3 task_2.py
```

### Windows
```
python task_1.py

python task_2.py
```

# Assignment 5

**Note:** Navigate inside the `Assignment-5` directory

## Task 1: Create a Dictionary of Student Marks
Using file handling knowldge from the previous assignment, This Python program allows users to store, retrieve, and manage student marks using a simple text file as a persistent storage medium. It demonstrates the use of file handling, dictionaries, and basic user interaction through a menu-driven interface.

Here is a quick walkthough of code:
1. **add_details(name, marks)**
- Creates new file if not present already 
- Appends a new student's name and marks to the file.

2. **fetch_details()**
- Reads the file and returns dictionry of all student records.

3. **Menu-Driven Interface**
- Using while loop I keep on displaying a menu
    (1. Add Details 2. fetch Details 3. Exit)
- The loop terminates on 3.


## Task 2: Demonstrate List Slicing 
- Creates a list of numbers from 1 to 10.
- Extracts the first five elements from the list.
- Reverses these extracted elements.
- Prints both the extracted list and the reversed list

### Mac or Linux
```
python3 task_1.py

python3 task_2.py
```

### Windows
```
python task_1.py

python task_2.py
```
